[Music]
welcome to another episode of 7-minute
marketing with Pam my name is Pam dinner
and I love sharing a dose of b2b digital
content marketing and sales enablement
in seven minutes at a time my son Joey
was a high school leadership camp
counselor this summer he managed about
30 high schoolers during the 210 day
overnight camp sessions so he was about
15 kids possession he came home when
these two sessions were over and I
picked him up from the airport it was
very good to see him he looked
physically and mentally exhausted but in
good spirits so on the way home he was
talking to me about the camp and I asked
him what is his biggest takeaway from
being a counselor so I sound like a
podcast interviewer he described his
takeaway in two words parenting and
depression depression was he depressed
no he explained it to me he said that he
learned a lot about parenting way to go
Joey well he was a quasi parent for
these high schoolers for 20-some days
seems this was a Leadership Conference
they did personality what team-building
exercises to help them discover who they
are and what their strengths and
weaknesses are through these exercises
kids need to start look inward and
confront some of the emotional issues
they possess but have ignored for years
when some of the emotion started
surfacing some kids broke down and
didn't know how to deal with it and he
said most kids are from well-to-do
families but there are issues at home
with their parents with schools or even
with their own gender identities as
mature as Joey is he is only a college
freshman he's not trained to deal with
some of the questions that these kids
were asking him but he listened
intensely he was very careful not to
tell them what they should do he doesn't
think that is his job to tell them what
to do but he tried to ask
to help them assess the situation then
guide them to identify some actions they
can take on their own
it's a funny that he told me how much he
learned about parenting during the 20
Sundays and he concluded that parenting
is hard
no kidding Joey I could have told you
that he said since he was responsible
for all these kids and their safety he
was constantly on high alert even if he
was sleeping he will wake up in the
middle of night cold sweat and then the
first thing that popped into his mind
was where are my kids I left so hard
when is that bad
welcome to the bear and what Joey huh
the second thing he mentioned to me is
alarming she said that depression the
mountain is real and rampant most of
these kids has so much but they are
deeply unhappy they obviously have
emotional baggage that they carry with
them at the same time I wonder if peer
pressure and the social comparison also
play a role so when I look at my
friend's Facebook posts everything is
perfect the family reunion fun vacation
beautiful meals and more and on social
media which these kids know intimately
babies always smiling the holiday family
get-together was always pleasant and
friendly with no drama but deep down we
all know that's not true
I'm wondering if these kids growing up
with smartphones and the picture-perfect
selfies fully understand that picture or
videos don't tell the whole story
perfect pictures don't mean perfect
lives life is full of setbacks and
failures behind the scenes we all have
to deal with our own ups and downs the
social comparison or the urge to post
pictures to show how happy they are may
be dragging them down I don't have an
answer for rampant depression since the
causes for depression are different from
individual to individual the remedies
will vary from case to case
however this issue makes me think about
data and marketing the greatest benefit
Marketing is that we can optimize our
marketing efforts using data but to what
and I'm using myself as an example now I
look at my Google Analytics on a regular
basis and I'm never never happy with my
site traffic nothing I did was good
enough
there's always something I need to do to
improve on my website and album
marketing efforts often I will also fall
into depression when that happens I tend
to sit back and give myself a pep talk
Pam look at how far you have come in the
past four years web traffic is not a
result it's all part of journey just
keep doing what you are doing Pam as a
marketer we are always trying new ideas
and technologies sometimes it works
beautifully sometimes it creates a
massive setback and I don't know about
you when that happens it depresses the
heck out of me it's so much more
personal when you work for yourself you
spend your heart and money and it just
doesn't work it's frustrating and
depressing
it's especially true on the promotional
front let me tell you that however I'm
very lucky that I have help I can train
to my family and mentors to Bent I can
also turn to my yoga practice overall I
can change my perspectives and count my
blessings
Joey was grateful for the experience
however he was not sure if he wants to
do it again next summer because of
emotional toll I asking me if he was
depressed he said no mom if I'm ever
depressed I can talk to you and Dad
I will ask for help so that's the best
thing Joey has ever said to me in
addition that he loves me he knows he
can come to me when he has issues and
I'm glad that he understand that he's
now long and he can ask for help as a
marketers we can ask for help too so
welcome back Joey again Semyon marketing
questions or thoughts via Twitter Pam
dinner be well until next time
[Music]